README.md, before:

# mc-recursion
 recursive programming is all about functions that invoke themselves. It allows 
 us to perform the same sort of tasks that loops are typically used for but in a
 an arguably more elegant way. Recursion isn't useful in every situation but it 
 some problems are most easily solved recursively - and it's always fun to learn
 something new.

 For a lot of people this style of programming is initially confusing, but with
 a little work it will become very understandable and powerful


## How write a recursive function

 There are two main parts to a recursive function
 a - something that will make the function stop. Sometimes called a 'base
 case'
 b - a way for the function to invokve itself. 

### Contrived example 1

 ```js
const countToTen = (count) => {
  if (count >= 10) {
  // this is our base case. If we have counted to ten - we stop
  // Without this we would keep going forever!!!
      console.log(count);
      return;
    } else {
      // this is what makes our function recursive. It calls
      itself!!!!!
      console.log(count);
      countToTen(count + 1);
      }
    }

countToTen(0); // will console log the numbers from 1 to 10
  ```



### Contrived example 2 

```js
// shout :: [String] -> [String]
const shout = (words) => {
  if (words.length <= 0) { // the base case
    return [];
  } else { // recursion! but this time we are returning something
    return [(words[0].toUpperCase())].concat(shout(words.slice(1)));
  }
}

console.log(shout(["I", "am", "a", "sensitive", "boy"])) 
// -> [ 'I', 'AM', 'A', 'SENSITIVE', 'BOY' ]
```


the recursion might be a bit hard to parse. SO LETS BREAK IT
DOWN

`[(words[0].toUpperCase())]` - we uppercase the first word in our array, and stick it inside a new array

`.concat(...)` - we are appending something to the end of the array


`shout(words.slice(1))` - and that thing is shout invoked with our remaining words.


we could also write it out like this
```js
const firstWord = words[0]
const restOfTheWords = words.slice(1)
const firstWordShouted = firstWord.toUpperCase();
const restOfTheWordsShouted = shout(restOfTheWords);
return [firstWordShouted].concat(restOfTheWordsShouted);
```

## Exercises!

to get started please run `npm install`, and then `npm run test -- --watch`
You can then open the index.js file, and start trying to write your solutions.

If you get stuck, ask your peers for help! 🦄

If you want to really understand how this is all working, I suggest learning
about JavaScript's stack - [ this video is a good place to start ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8aGhZQkoFbQ)

Commit message:

add further reading to readme

README.md, after:

# mc-recursion
 recursive programming is all about functions that invoke themselves. It allows 
 us to perform the same sort of tasks that loops are typically used for but in a
 an arguably more elegant way. Recursion isn't useful in every situation but it 
 some problems are most easily solved recursively - and it's always fun to learn
 something new.

 For a lot of people this style of programming is initially confusing, but with
 a little work it will become very understandable and powerful


## How write a recursive function

 There are two main parts to a recursive function
 a - something that will make the function stop. Sometimes called a 'base
 case'
 b - a way for the function to invokve itself. 

### Contrived example 1

 ```js
const countToTen = (count) => {
  if (count >= 10) {
  // this is our base case. If we have counted to ten - we stop
  // Without this we would keep going forever!!!
      console.log(count);
      return;
    } else {
      // this is what makes our function recursive. It calls
      itself!!!!!
      console.log(count);
      countToTen(count + 1);
      }
    }

countToTen(0); // will console log the numbers from 1 to 10
  ```



### Contrived example 2 

```js
// shout :: [String] -> [String]
const shout = (words) => {
  if (words.length <= 0) { // the base case
    return [];
  } else { // recursion! but this time we are returning something
    return [(words[0].toUpperCase())].concat(shout(words.slice(1)));
  }
}

console.log(shout(["I", "am", "a", "sensitive", "boy"])) 
// -> [ 'I', 'AM', 'A', 'SENSITIVE', 'BOY' ]
```


the recursion might be a bit hard to parse. SO LETS BREAK IT
DOWN

`[(words[0].toUpperCase())]` - we uppercase the first word in our array, and stick it inside a new array

`.concat(...)` - we are appending something to the end of the array


`shout(words.slice(1))` - and that thing is shout invoked with our remaining words.


we could also write it out like this
```js
const firstWord = words[0]
const restOfTheWords = words.slice(1)
const firstWordShouted = firstWord.toUpperCase();
const restOfTheWordsShouted = shout(restOfTheWords);
return [firstWordShouted].concat(restOfTheWordsShouted);
```

## Exercises!

to get started please run `npm install`, and then `npm run test -- --watch`
You can then open the index.js file, and start trying to write your solutions.

If you get stuck, ask your peers for help! 🦄


### Further research
If you want to really understand how this can possibly work, I suggest learning
about JavaScript's stack - [ this video is a good place to start ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8aGhZQkoFbQ)


[computerphile video about recursion](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mv9NEXX1VHc)
